TELCODOCS-1690 - support node deletion via gitops ztp (#74872)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ztp-deleting-node-using-siteconfig.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * edge_computing/ztp-advanced-install-ztp.adoc

:_module-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ztp-deleting-node-siteconfig_{context}"]
= Deleting a node using the SiteConfig CR

You can use a SiteConfig custom resource (CR) to delete a node and then reprovision it. 
This is more efficient than manually deleting the node.

.Prerequisites

* You configured the hub cluster for generating the required installation and policy CRs.

* You created a Git repository where you manage your custom site configuration data. The repository must be accessible from the hub cluster and be defined as a source repository for the Argo CD application.

.Procedure

. Update the  `SiteConfig` CR to include the `bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/remove-agent-and-node-on-delete=true` annotation, for example:
+

> [source,yaml]

Author: I don't think we need to add a heading to a sample in a procedure step.

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer: There aren't guidelines around this. However, without a title this can read pretty poorly for screen readers I'd imagine.

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 2: I agree with @JoeAldinger. If you aren't explicitly stating this is an example with a header, the values need to be updated with [user-replaced values](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#user-replaced-values). This comment also applies to the code block following this one.

----
nodes:
- hostname: node6
  role: "worker"
  crAnnotations:
    add:
      BareMetalHost:
        bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/remove-agent-and-node-on-delete: true

----

> . Suppress the generation of the `BMH` CR via SiteConfig. Update the `SiteConfig` CR to include the `crSuppression.BareMetalHost`, for example:

Reviewer 3: BMH CR,  looks vague, maybe use the full form, BareMetalHost

> . Suppress the generation of the `BMH` CR via SiteConfig. Update the `SiteConfig` CR to include the `crSuppression.BareMetalHost`, for example:

Reviewer 3: applies to all instances.

> . Suppress the generation of the `BMH` CR via SiteConfig. Update the  `SiteConfig` CR to include the `crSuppression.BareMetalHost`, for example:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Suppress the generation of the `BMH` CR via SiteConfig. Update the `SiteConfig` CR to include the `crSuppression.BareMetalHost`, for example:
```

+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Example `SiteConfig` CR
[source,yaml]
```

----
nodes:
- hostname: node6
  role: "worker"
  crSuppression:
    - BareMetalHost
----

> . Push the changes to the git repo and wait for deprovisioning to start. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Push the changes to the Git repository and wait for the deprovisioning to start. 
```

> The status of the `BMH` CR should change to "deprovisioning". Wait for the `BMH` to finish deprovisioning, and to be fully deleted.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The status of the `BMH` CR should change to "deprovisioning". Wait for the `BMH` to finish deprovisioning, and be fully deleted.
```

Reviewer 3: I think we can use backticks for "deprovisioning"?

.Verification

. Verify that the `BMH` and `Agent` CRs for the worker node have been deleted from the hub cluster by running the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get bmh -n <cluster-ns>

> $ oc get agent -n <cluster-ns>

Reviewer 3: 2 separate code blocks, and also consider adding a callout for `cluster-ns`

----

. Verify that the node record has been deleted from the spoke cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> When working with secrets, deleting a secret too soon may cause an issue as ArgoCD needs the secret to complete the resync following deletion. 
> Do not delete the secret until after node cleanup when the current ArgoCD sync has completed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you are working with secrets, deleting a secret too early can cause an issue because ArgoCD needs the secret to complete resynchronization after deletion.
Delete the secret only after the node cleanup, when the current ArgoCD synchronization is complete.
```

====

> .Reprovisioning

Reviewer 3: Next steps??

Author: @agil antony
Thanks for the review. I'm not sure what you mean here

Reviewer 2: +1 renaming or moving this. The title of this module is "Deleting a node by using the SiteConfig CR" and walks through the steps to delete. The only mention of reprovisioning is in the intro paragraph. As of now, naming this "reprovisoning" not only seems out of place, but I couldn't find anywhere else in the docs where we do this. It also is not listed in the [mod docs guide](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#verification) as an option for procedure modules either.

Since ["Next steps"](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/modular-docs/#next-steps) in the mod docs guide says not to provide a second list of instructions which I feel like this step kind of starts to. I would suggest maybe making another module for reprovisioning because while you could move it up to the last step before the verification steps, it still seems out of place there too.

Author: Thanks, @agantony  After some discussion we've gone with your suggestion of "Next Steps".

> To reprovision a node, delete the changes added to the `SiteConfig` CR in the first two steps of the procedure, then push the changes to the git repo and wait for sync to complete. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* To reprovision a node, delete the previously added changes to the `SiteConfig`, push the changes to the Git repository and wait for the synchronization to complete.
```

> This re-generates the `BMH` CR of the worker node and triggers the re-install of the node.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
This regenerates the `BMH` CR of the worker node and triggers the reinstallation of the node.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * edge_computing/ztp-advanced-install-ztp.adoc

> :_module-type: PROCEDURE

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
```

Reviewer: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#:~:text=Each%20.adoc%20file,content%2Dtype%3A%20CONCEPT

Author: Thanks - done

[id="ztp-deleting-node-siteconfig_{context}"]
= Deleting a node by using the SiteConfig CR

By using a SiteConfig custom resource (CR), you can delete and reprovision a node. 
This method is more efficient than manually deleting the node.

.Prerequisites

* You have configured the hub cluster to generate the required installation and policy CRs.

* You have created a Git repository in which you can manage your custom site configuration data. The repository must be accessible from the hub cluster and be defined as the source repository for the Argo CD application.

.Procedure

. Update the  `SiteConfig` CR to include the `bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/remove-agent-and-node-on-delete=true` annotation:
+
[source,yaml]
----

> nodes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# ...
nodes:
- hostname: node6
  role: "worker"
  crAnnotations:
    add:
      BareMetalHost:
        bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/remove-agent-and-node-on-delete: true
# ...
```

Reviewer: You need to include more [context](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#yaml-formatting-for-kubernetes-and-openshift-api-objects) for the YAML samples.

Author: Yes, sorry about that

- hostname: node6
  role: "worker"
  crAnnotations:
    add:
      BareMetalHost:
        bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/remove-agent-and-node-on-delete: true
----

> . Suppress the generation of the `BareMetalHost` CR from `SiteConfig`.  

Reviewer: This seems like two steps to me `Suppress` and `Update`. Should this be broken up?

> . Suppress the generation of the `BareMetalHost` CR from `SiteConfig`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Suppress the generation of the `BareMetalHost` CR from the `SiteConfig` CR.  
```

> Update the `SiteConfig` CR to include the `crSuppression.BareMetalHost`, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Update the `SiteConfig` CR to include the `crSuppression.BareMetalHost` annotation, for example:
```

+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer: You need to include more [context](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#yaml-formatting-for-kubernetes-and-openshift-api-objects) for the YAML samples.  This is also missing the `# ...` at the beginning and end.

----
nodes:
- hostname: node6
  role: "worker"
  crSuppression:
    - BareMetalHost
----

. Push the changes to the Git repository and wait for deprovisioning to start. 
The status of the `BareMetalHost` CR should change to `deprovisioning`. Wait for the `BareMetalHost` to finish deprovisioning, and be fully deleted.

.Verification

. Verify that the `BareMetalHost` and `Agent` CRs for the worker node have been deleted from the hub cluster by running the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get bmh -n <cluster-ns>
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get agent -n <cluster-ns>
----

> 

Reviewer: I think expected outputs can be helpful to a user. Optional if you'd like to include them.

Author: Decided against an output here. The verification is to see that something isn't there. Hard to get an output that show the absence of something in a meaningful way.

. Verify that the node record has been deleted from the spoke cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get nodes
----
+
[NOTE]
====
If you are working with secrets, deleting a secret too early can cause an issue because ArgoCD needs the secret to complete resynchronization after deletion. 
Delete the secret only after the node cleanup, when the current ArgoCD synchronization is complete.
====

.Reprovisioning

To reprovision a node, delete the changes previously added to the `SiteConfig`, push the changes to the Git repository and wait for the synchronization to complete. 

> +

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * edge_computing/ztp-advanced-install-ztp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ztp-deleting-node-siteconfig_{context}"]
= Deleting a node by using the SiteConfig CR

> By using a SiteConfig custom resource (CR), you can delete and reprovision a node. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By using a `SiteConfig` custom resource (CR), you can delete and reprovision a node. 
```

This method is more efficient than manually deleting the node.

.Prerequisites

* You have configured the hub cluster to generate the required installation and policy CRs.

* You have created a Git repository in which you can manage your custom site configuration data. The repository must be accessible from the hub cluster and be defined as the source repository for the Argo CD application.

.Procedure

. Update the  `SiteConfig` CR to include the `bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/remove-agent-and-node-on-delete=true` annotation:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: ran.openshift.io/v1
kind: SiteConfig
metadata:
  name: "cnfdf20"
  namespace: "cnfdf20"
spec:
  Clusters:    
    nodes:
    - hostname: node6
      role: "worker"
      crAnnotations:
        add:
          BareMetalHost:
            bmac.agent-install.openshift.io/remove-agent-and-node-on-delete: true
# ...
----

> . Suppress the generation of the `BareMetalHost` CR by updating the `SiteConfig` CR to include the `crSuppression.BareMetalHost` annotation, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Suppress the generation of the `BareMetalHost` CR by updating the `SiteConfig` CR to include the `crSuppression.BareMetalHost` annotation:
```
For consistency within this doc, you might want to consider removing the "for example" here as well.
